feat: Add blog covering cgo distribution solution (#28)
agntcy/blogs: _posts/2026-01-16-distributing-c-artifacts-for-go-modules.md

| macOS   | arm64        | aarch64-apple-darwin               | libslim_bindings_aarch64_apple_darwin.a    |
| Windows | amd64        | x86_64-pc-windows-gnu              | libslim_bindings_x86_64_windows_gnu.a      |

## Building the Release Artifacts

The artifacts are built using a CI/CD pipeline in the main SLIM repository. Here's the general process:

1. **Cross-compile Rust library** for all target platforms using `cross` or `cargo build --target`
2. **Generate C bindings** using UniFFI
3. **Create static libraries** (`.a` files)
4. **Package per platform** into zip files
5. **Upload to GitHub Release** with version tag

Example commit message from our releases:

```
Release v0.7.2

Generated from https://github.com/agntcy/slim/commit/a51521ea

Platforms:
- linux/amd64 (x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu)
- linux/arm64 (aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu)
- linux/amd64-musl (x86_64-unknown-linux-musl)
- linux/arm64-musl (aarch64-unknown-linux-musl)
- darwin/arm64 (aarch64-apple-darwin)
- darwin/amd64 (x86_64-apple-darwin)
- windows/amd64 (x86_64-pc-windows-msvc)
```

## Advantages of This Approach

> 1. **No Runtime Dependencies**: End users don't need any native libraries installed—binaries are self-contained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **No Runtime Dependencies**: End users don't need additional native libraries installed—binaries are either self-contained or they just depend on system libs
```

From an end user's perspective, it's even simpler:

```bash
# Just run the application - no installation of native libraries required!
./myapp
```

## Advantages of This Approach

1. **No Additional Runtime Dependencies**: End users don't need to install additional native libraries—binaries are self-contained (standard system libraries like glibc are still required)
2. **No Build Toolchain Required for Developers**: Developers don't need Rust, C compilers (beyond what CGO needs), or complex build dependencies
3. **Fast Installation**: Download pre-compiled static libraries instead of compiling from source
4. **Version Pinning**: Go modules naturally version-pin the setup tool and library version together
5. **Cross-Platform**: Works consistently across Linux, macOS, and Windows
6. **Transparent**: Developers can see exactly what's being downloaded and where it's stored
7. **Cache-Friendly**: Standard cache directories integrate with system cleanup tools
8. **Single Binary Deployment**: Maintains Go's promise of simple, single-binary deployment

## Limitations and Trade-offs

1. **Manual Setup Step**: Developers must run the setup tool once (not fully automatic)

> 2. **Storage Overhead**: Each platform variant is ~600 MB in the developer's cache (includes all debug symbols)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Storage Overhead**: Each platform variant is ~140 MB in the developer's cache (includes all debug symbols)
```

- **Developer-friendly** installation process  
- **Fast** download and setup
- **Transparent** and auditable
- **Cross-platform** support
- **Single-binary deployment** that preserves Go's philosophy

The key insight is choosing static over dynamic linking. While it increases binary size, it eliminates runtime dependencies entirely, ensuring that applications built with our Go library can be distributed as truly self-contained binaries.

While not perfect, it solves the core problem: developers can use CGO-based Go modules without complex build toolchains, and **end users can run the resulting applications without installing any native libraries**.

The SLIM Go bindings demonstrate this approach in production. If you're building Go modules with native dependencies and want to maintain Go's single-binary deployment promise, consider adapting this pattern for your own projects.

## References

- [SLIM Go Bindings Repository](https://github.com/agntcy/slim-bindings-go)
- [SLIM Main Repository](https://github.com/agntcy/slim)
- [UniFFI - Unified Foreign Function Interface](https://mozilla.github.io/uniffi-rs/)

> - [XDG Base Directory Specification](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html)

Reviewer: We can drop this now (just the XDG Base Directory Specification)
